Homework #: 7
Student Name: Paul Benoit
EID: pjb742
CS login: paulbeno
Email address: paul.benoit36@gmail.com
Unique Number: 53015

--
Name two advantages of using small pages and two advantages of using large pages in a paging mechanism. Why page sizes are growing in paging memory systems?
----------1. 

Advantages of small pages: Allows a process to run anywhere with fewer resources because more pages can be stored in a cache of the same size. Small pages can also retrieve small pieces of information from random locations much quicker.
Advantages of large pages: Allows a larger process to retrieve fewer large blocks more efficiently than many small ones. It also improves the number of index levels, and allows tables to include more columns

----------2.

a. The page field width is 8 bits. Page size is 2^8 = 256 bytes
b. 1024 * 2 + 256 * 2(one second-level page table) + 16 * 64 * 2(16 third-level page tables) = 4608 bytes

--
The Operating System gives memory to the heap memory manager k page(s) at a time. Why?
----------3.

This prevents fragmentation in the memory. It does not want to assign too many pages to the heap memeory manager at one time.
This would cause too much external fragmentation.

--
Consider a paging system with 16 pages and a page size of 256 bytes. The system has 1024 bytes of physical memory.
----------4.

How many bits are in a physical address?: 10
How many bits represent the page number?: 4
How many bits are in the complete virtual address?: 14
What size are the page frames?: 256 bytes

--
Question 9.19, page 852, B&O.
----------5,

1.
(a) In a buddy system, up to 50% of the space can be wasted due to internal
	fragmentation.
(b) The first-fit memory allocation algorithm is slower than the best-fit algo-
	rithm (on average).
(c) Deallocation using boundary tags is fast only when the list of free blocks
	is ordered according to increasing memory addresses.
(d) The buddy system suffers from internal fragmentation, but not from
	external fragmentation.

2.
(a) Using the first-fit algorithm on a free list that is ordered according to
	decreasing block sizes results in low performance for allocations, but
	avoids external fragmentation.
(b) For the best-fit method, the list of free blocks should be ordered according
	to increasing memory addresses.
(c) The best-fit method chooses the largest free block into which the re-
	quested segment fits.
(d) Using the first-fit algorithm on a free list that is ordered according to
	increasing block sizes is equivalent to using the best-fit algorithm.

3. Mark & sweep garbage collectors are called conservative if:
(a) They coalesce freed memory only when a memory request cannot be
	satisfied.
(b) They treat everything that looks like a pointer as a pointer.
(c) They perform garbage collection only when they run out of memory.
(d) They do not free memory blocks forming a cyclic list.

Answer: c, b, a
